In the United States, salmon is the third
most consumed fish we have. Where does it
come from? And how do we get it? It's
actually very dynamic and complex part
of global food system. If we go back
about fifty years ago, most salmon came
from the Pacific Northwest. While
Alaskan salmon were sold in Japan. A lot of
fresh product was sold the West coast
and here on the East Coast it would mostly come
in as a canned or frozen. There was a lot
of canned products out here. At the end
of the seventies, the Norwegians really
started to make progress on farming salmon.
They started shipping fresh salmon
into Europe and fresh salmon in to the United
States.
This fresh salmon was high quality and
flown here. It out competed most of the
salmon that was already sold in the
United States, especially in the East
Coast.
However, the product production tend to
increase very rapidly and prices
really declined at the end of the
eighties and nineties. U.S. industry brought
a case against in the Norwegians and
basically pushed them out of the market
with a tarif. But, no problem for U.S.
consumers from salmon, because Chile,
Canada on the East and West coasts scaled
up their industry rapidly. This is
financed primarily by Japanese, Norwegian,
and U.S. money. From there salmon started
coming in from the East coast of Canada
the West coast of Canada and Chile. And in
the mid-eighties Chileans developed a
pin bones out portion control fillet. This
really expanded the market in the East
Coast and Southeast Coast. In the
meantime, the Alaskans started to get
bumped out of the Japanese market because
Norwegian salmon started going into Japan.
Russian salmon started going into Japan. And
Chilean salmon started going into Japan. Then
the Alaskans realized in order to
compete in the U.S. market they need to
cut their costs of processing. So in recent
years
Alaska has been sending as much as a
third their salmon into China for
processing. And then that sent sent back
and sold in the United States. So we got
a very complex and dynamic system here.
That's what we're studying at the
University of Florida. That's where we're
going to be training the next generation of people.
Thank you.